
# Primal Mama: Bayou Awakening &  The Murky Margins

## Tutorial: Bayou Awakening

**Location:** Secluded Swamp Shack, Primal Mama Bayou 
**Protagonist:** "Gator" (An Erpenthrope, or an individual deeply connected to the swamp 's strange energies)

The game begins with Gator submerged in a murky, revitalizing mud bath within their secluded swamp shack…  until a particularly feisty vampire bunny, likely a "gift" from their enigmatic mentor/lover, Mama Legba, gives  a playful nip. She materializes from the shadows, perhaps with a knowing chuckle, and chides Gator about neglecting the  training of their young protégé, Cypress. The two share a moment, get dressed in practical swamp-worn attire, and another  day steeped in the bayou's miasma begins.

Or rather, the game's tutorial begins. Your  first task is to find the **Shack Key** to unlock the main door, wisely secured against swamp critters and p rying eyes. Aside from pointlessly fiddling with salvaged 70s-tech knick-knacks and examining  strange gourds, there's not much to do. In the north-western corner of the room, on a worn  book atop a crate near the door, you'll find the key. Of course, you're supposed to be  trying out your innate **"Bayou Sight" [L2]** (or "Swamp Sense"). Hold that  button down, and the world shimmers, highlighting interactable objects with an eerie green glow – in this case, the  Shack Key. Grab it and open the door. Yes, the game even gives you a tutorial for opening doors. Turns out you have  to face them and press **[X]**. Who knew in this crazy, retro-futuristic swamp?

* Note: All directions will be given in relation to the salvaged 70s-style compass display on your wrist-mounted " Bayou Buddy" device. It's a pretty nifty tool that'll make both our lives easier.*

Unlock  the door and slink outside, Gator-style. Once in the humid air, Gator will note that their old mentor –  Papa Croc – who was supposed to be teaching Cypress the ways of the swamp, has nodded off. Instead of some  dull herb-lore, Cypress decided to practice her aim on some discarded Beetriot propaganda posters while Papa Croc caught forty  winks. After some gruff chatter with Papa Croc, Gator heads over to speak with the young aspiring swamp-walker . After chatting with Cypress for a bit, she'll ask if you want to **"run the mangroves,"** which is a  handy, more in-depth tutorial covering basic mobility.

### Running the Mangroves

If you chose to "run the mangroves,"  start out by heading west and climbing a rickety ladder **[X]** made of gator bones and vines, then  scale two mossy platforms to the north **[Circle]** and climb onto a fallen cypress trunk to the west.  Drop off a ledge to the north, then another to the south before scrambling down another vine ladder to the east. Head  down some muddy stairs to the south and climb down another ladder, then navigate some wooden walkways to the west, going down  two more flights of stairs and another ladder. Once all this is done, your goal is to head east into a sunken g rotto to find Papa Croc, who is waiting with two other Erpenthropes (or seasoned swamp dwellers), Lambertine  and Eskelbert.

*Note: The Kaer Morhen design nod could be translated to the shack and its surroundings having  a familiar, almost ritualistically laid-out feel if Gator has been there before or if it's a traditional Erpenthrope  dwelling.*

Papa Croc will give Cypress the "seen-too-many-summers" glare before finally moving on  to combat training. Accept the tutorial if you wish to learn more about bayou brawling (why wouldn't you ?) or pass.

### The Fundamentals of Bayou Brawling

Choose to "start with the fundamentals" and Gator will retrieve  their trusty weapons. The game will briefly introduce you to the three basic tools of a Bayou survivor: **blades, Bayou  Juju, and Swamp Concoctions.** For now, we're focusing on blades. Press **[Left]** on the  D-pad to quick-draw your **Gator-Tooth Blade** (useful for fighting humanoids, especially those Beet riot Enforcers in their clunky 70s-style armor). Your **Spirit-Touched Machete [ Right]** will come into play later when we're hunting mutated swamp beasts or dealing with restless spirits, who are vulnerable to its  energies.

Once your blade is out, lock onto Papa Croc by pressing down on the **[R3] ** button, then perform a series of Fast Attacks **[Square]**, followed by Strong Attacks **[Triangle]**. Next  up, dodging **[Circle]**. Papa Croc gives ample warning before he attacks, so you should have no trouble  scoring two dodges that this task requires. Next you'll need to roll out of the way twice **[X ]**, which is more of the same, except Papa Croc's attacks are even more obvious. What's the difference ? Dodges are shorter and faster, best for evading quick critters and retaliating. Rolls are good for dodging heavy,  slower attacks from something like a Mutated Snapping Turtle. Parrying is the next order of business-simply hold down **[ L2]** to parry all of Papa Croc's attacks. Finally, it's time to practice ripostes . Hit **[L2]** as Papa Croc attacks to block-and-counter him.

Now it's time  to move onto **Bayou Juju**. Press **[L1]** to open the Quick Access Juju Wheel , from which you can select your powers.
*   First up is the **Turtle Shell Ward**. Select it,  then cast it by pressing **[R2]**. Turtle Shell Ward blocks damage from one significant hit, and is eminently useful for mitigating  damage. Cast it and let Papa Croc hit you – to no effect.
*   Then switch to **Swampfire**,  which projects a cone of fire at your foe, handy for harming or dispatching a group of weaker Swamp Shamblers,  or perhaps setting a tougher critter alight.
*   Next up is **Gator's Gaze**, which Gator  can use to disorient foes. It's also handy for gaining the upper hand in tense negotiations with stubborn bayou folk or  even some less-resolute Beetriot patrols.
*   Last up is **Mud Trap** (or **Binding  Roots**), which places a magical trap on the ground that slows enemies who enter.

Blades and Juju are done,  which leaves only **Swamp Concoctions**. First up are bombs. Press **[L1]** again and  access the lower half of your radial, which contains equipped concoctions (Bog Brews, bombs, Gator Greases). Select  a **Stink Bomb** (or Fire Ant Grenade), then chuck one at Papa Croc **[R1]**.  Then head to the selected spot and toss some more bombs at some training dummies (perhaps gator-shaped scarecrows), this  time holding down **[R1]** to free-aim.

You can now freely train with Papa Croc, and  it's nice to have the gloves off. Practice dodging, countering, attacking... all that good stuff. The training  ends when you sheathe your blade. After an unsettling intrusion from a spectral whisper or a tremor in the swamp's energy , so does the vision (or intense training daydream) in which the tutorial occurred.

---

## The Murky Margins : The Hunt is On

**Location:** The Fringes of the Primal Mama Bayou, near Lickskillet Out post

Gator will wake up, perhaps from a trance induced by Mama Legba, and the old Erpenthrope,  Papa Croc, will start chatting with him. Either reveal the details of your vision-tutorial, or not. Afterwards  the two will decide to head out. According to a tattered, water-stained note Gator received from Mama Legba, their  destination was the now-submerged ruins of "Willoughby's Landing," a rendezvous somewhat complicated by the fact that the recent  swamp-quakes and rising waters had pillaged it further. Tensions between Lickskillet and the Beetriot oligarch s are high, and where upheaval occurs, mutated critters and desperate scavengers follow.

This fact is punctuated by the **Swamp  Shamblers** that will show up and attack you here. They're not challenging foes – dispatch them by using Fast Attacks with  the Spirit-Touched Machete, then loot them for any Mutagenic Slime or Shambler Bones they might drop.  If you get injured, you can meditate by touching the **[Touch Pad]** and heading to the "Meditation" screen  to brew some basic **Bog Brews** (if you have the herbs) or simply to let Gator's Er penthropic nature (or general toughness) slowly mend their wounds. At this point in the game, you've got more  time than disposable healing items on your hands.

*Note: Gator naturally regenerates one point of Vitality per second.  Sadly, since they start the game with 3500 Vitality, this amounts to... well, frankly, piss- poor regeneration. It will take nearly an hour to regenerate from near-death to full health without Bog Brews or other aids .*

When you're done picking on Shamblers, return to your **Gator-Steed** (a  large, genetically engineered alligator modified for riding, likely with some chunky 70s-tech solar panels on its back  and a rudimentary control harness) and from it head north-west, just past a small game trail, where, with your Bayou  Sight active, you should spot a strange **Bone Fetish** lying on the ground. Gator will guess this odd object belongs to  Mama Legba. Might come in handy.

*Note: Using Bayou Sight will cause interactable (usually lootable)  object to glow yellow or green. Quest-related interactable objects will glow red. Mutated creatures or spirits will be shown as  shimmering white ripples (of varying size, depending upon proximity). Objects that can be affected by specific Jujus will have that J uju's symbol over them – typically objects that can be shattered with a Forceful Gust (Aard-like) or ignited  with Swampfire.*

That's enough goofing around for now. Time to head over to your Gator-Steed,  mount up (carefully), and follow Papa Croc. Don't worry, we'll return to explore this area  in more detail shortly. Summon your Gator-Steed by double-tapping **[L3]** (perhaps it responds  to a specific whistle or a clicker device). While riding, hold down **[X]** to canter ( a steady, solar-efficient gait), double-tap and hold **[X]** to gallop (drains  the bio-batteries faster), press **[Circle]** to make it lunge/jump small obstacles, and hold  **[Circle]** to dismount. **[Square]** and **[Triangle]** attack from gator-back,  but it's not an ideal way to fight.

There are two larger mud roads that eventually connect to the south –  you want to follow the eastern of the two. Papa Croc will comment on the state of the bayou and the encro aching influence of Beetriot as you ride, showing a decidedly un-Erpenthropic view of politics (which Gator doesn't  fail to comment on). When the road turns from heading south-east to south you'll spot some crude warning posts east  of the road with gator skulls impaled on them – likely a territorial marker or a warning from local swamp folk. Follow  the road south-west to find a **"Pillaged Fishing Shanty."** The constant struggle for resources hits  the poor swamp dwellers the hardest. Leave the people in peace for now and continue to follow Papa Croc south, then south-east , eventually crossing over a rickety wooden bridge.

*Note: Strange, glowing **Spirit Wells** (or ** Leyline Fonts**) serve as fast-travel waypoints. To use one, simply approach it and hit the **[X]**  button, then select any other discovered Spirit Well to travel there, perhaps by briefly merging with the swamp's spiritual pathways .*

### The Sky Serpent and the Watering Hole

Some time later, Gator and Papa Croc will run across a Salv ager (a merchant dealing in pre-Calamity scrap) being harassed by a **Sky Serpent** (a giant, mutated heron  or pelican with razor-sharp beak and talons). The Erpenthropes (or skilled swamp-walkers ) will succeed at chasing the beast off (although not in depriving it of its meal – a pack mule carrying salvaged tech) and Papa  Croc will be superficially wounded in the process. Afterwards, the maligned Salvager will emerge from under his armored,  solar-powered cart and offer to pay you for your good deed. If you demand payment, you'll find yourself  50 **Gator Scutes** (or Pre-Calamity Tokens) richer. Afterwards, the Salvager will overhear you  talking, and refer you to the tavern in the village of **Lickskillet Outpost.**

| Objective                               | Reward         |
| :-------------------------------------- | :------------ |
| For asking the Salvager for a reward | 50  Gator Scutes |

If you bother checking out your map you'll note that you've traveled north-west from where  you were before the cutscene, and you should continue west along the road from the "Cypress Bend" marked on your  map. Papa Croc and Gator will discuss the Sky Serpent's odd hunting habits (perhaps driven from its usual territory  by pollution from Beetriot, or by the Calamity's lingering effects). Seems Erpenthropes will  gladly attribute any odd monster behavior to human activity or the Calamity. Keep riding east, cross **"Wailin' Willow  Bridge"** to reach the village of Lickskillet. Follow Papa Croc to the **Watering Hole**  (the local tavern) and he and Gator will dismount and head inside.

Witness some tension in the Watering Hole ( perhaps between locals and a few off-duty Beetriot Enforcers, or just between rival trappers), after which Gator  and Papa Croc will talk to the Saloon Keeper, a tough-as-nails woman named Belle. If you didn't  shakedown her cousin (the Salvager) earlier, she'll be thankful and give you four Smoked All igator Legs. Keep talking to her to learn that there's no official contract from Beetriot for the Sky Serpent yet.  The Erpenthropes might speculate on why the Sky Serpent has chosen abnormal hunting habits, but the reason why there's no  bounty can fully be blamed on Beetriot's bureaucratic incompetence or their focus on exploiting the region rather than protecting its inhabitants . Other than that, she sells some food, potent home-brewed spirits, and hasn't seen Mama Legba…  although somebody else in the tavern may have.

*Note: Merchants have a fixed amount of Scutes/Tokens on them at any  given time. Fortunately, the entire economy of the bayou isn't dependent upon our actions – if you meditate for  a while (passing time), eventually the Merchants will replenish their money, and some of their wares.*

| Objective                                                                  | Reward                    |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------ |
| For not taking the  Salvager's money earlier and talking to the Saloon Keeper | 4 Smoked Alligator Legs |

Start  out by talking to a pair of Bayou Folk sitting north of where Papa Croc roosts. They're a pair  of superstitious yokels, but if you use **Gator's Gaze** on one of them, you'll get  the information you seek – Mama Legba passed through here a few days ago. In quite a hurry.

| Objective                                     |  Reward |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :----- |
| For using Gator's Gaze to get the Yok el to talk | 25 XP  |

Of course, it's not the most reliable of information,  so we might as well keep asking. Ignore the threesome playing **Gator Gambits** (a local card game using  carved gator scutes or polished bones) east of the Saloon Keeper, and instead talk to a mysterious, ro bed figure further east, possibly a wandering **Swamp Hermit** or a surprisingly well-informed Beetriot informant named  Gaunterius O'Malley. As far as tavern patrons go, he's a rather insightful chap, if a bit  cryptic. Play as nice as the dialogue options will allow and you'll score some rare **Pre-Calamity Coffee  Beans** for free, as well as the information you seek. He not only knows Mama Legba by her description, but he  knows *you*, as well. Seems tales of Gator's exploits (or Mama Legba's protégé) travel far. The  Yokels from before were right, but lacked sufficient information. The local Beetriot garrison, if there is one, might  know more.

### A Game of Gator Gambits

Talk to the threesome sitting at the table, and one fanatic  (perhaps a fervent believer in the deified Burt Reynolds) will chase the other two off. Ask him about his collection  of 70s memorabilia, what he meant when he mentioned the "Spectral Gator of Cletus's Bog ," and chat about Lickskillet's future as far as Beetriot's influence is concerned. Once that's done , go to leave and he'll ask you to play Gator Gambits with him. For more information on Gator Gambits, check  out the heading "Gator Gambit Strategies" (a separate codex entry/tutorial).

Play your first match of Gator Gambits  with the Fanatic, and with any luck you should win. He's not too bright, despite his fervor. If  you play powerful, diverse scutes/bones, he's really got no chance. Just don't play all  your pieces in one round – you rarely get to draw new ones. If you build up a comfortable lead (five Strength or more higher ) you might just want to pass. This will end the game for you, and there's a chance he'll spend himself  to victory, but if he does this on the first round, there's a good chance he just won't have any  pieces left to compete with on the next two rounds.

When you win (best two out of three rounds takes the game) you 'll get the **"Legendary Bull Gator" Scute**, a Close Combat piece that has no specific faction allegiance –  it can be played in any set. Sweet. You can also buy more Gator Gambit pieces from the Saloon Keeper – she  sells five, including another "Papa Croc" Leader Piece, three high-Strength "Swamp Shambler Horde " pieces with the "Pack Tactics" special ability (pieces that amplify duplicate pieces when played together) and a "Mir age Heron" piece (Decoy equivalent). In any event, the Fanatic will mention a certain "Old Man Tiber " you should look up later in your travels. All this starts the quest **"Collect 'Em All: Bayou Edition ."** Seriously, be sure to buy these pieces as soon as you can – you might not be able to later, and  missing out on the "Mirage Heron," "Armored Crawdad," "Twin-Headed Snapper" and "Bog  Stalker" pieces would be a shame.

| Objective                                   | Reward                        |
| :------------------------------------------  | :---------------------------- |
| For defeating the Fanatic at Gator Gambits | Legendary Bull Gator Scute |

###  Exploring Lickskillet Outpost

**Community Message Post**
Leave the Watering Hole, whereupon you'll discover that  the local toughs who eyed you earlier are waiting for you outside. Hatred of outsiders (or Erpenthropes ) tends to come paired with the lack of sense to avoid provoking them. And so it is in this case, as well. A  fight ensues regardless of what action you pick in response to them, but if you use the **Gator's Gaze ** Juju you can earn some extra experience and take one of them out of the fight. Wisely, they choose  fisticuffs as their weapons, so smack them around.

| Objective                                  | Reward |
| :---------------- ------------------------- | :----- |
| For using the Gator's Gaze on the Thug    | 4 0 XP  |
| For beating up the Thugs                   | 350 XP |

It's  finally time to start exploring – the Beetriot Enforcers (if any are around) can wait, they're not  going anywhere any time soon. We'll start with the outpost, where one would expect to receive plenty of work,  and then move on to exploring the wilderness, focusing on points of interest as we go. Whenever possible our area of exploration will  be centered around a nearby **Spirit Well** (which also double as a fast travel locations), but when that's not  concise enough, geographic features (a haunted bog, a ruined pre-Calamity structure, a cluster of shanties ) or simple directional bias (the north-eastern stretch of the murky waters) will be used.

Anywho, first things  first, head down the muddy path from the Watering Hole to the east a bit – there are a few discarded 70s- style coolers and rusted containers near the gator pens worth looting, but as a general rule every box, crate, and sack  won't be pointed out (unless they have something particularly note-worthy inside, of course) – where you'll  find your old pal the Salvager. You remember him? He was almost eaten by a Sky Serpent. Seems he salvaged  some of his pre-Calamity tech, but his solar-cart repairs take time and are expensive, so he' s eager to sell off what goods he has while he waits. While it's nice to catch up with him, he doesn' t really sell much of interest… unless you installed the **"Bayou Rattler Retro Gear" DLC**, in which case , he'll have a full set of that gear in his inventory. It's the best armor we'll immediately have access  to (alligator hide reinforced with scavenged 70s plastic and metal plating), and if you've got  the Scutes, it's worth buying.

Turn around and follow the path west, looting shacks and grabbing  glowing swamp herbs as it pleases you. It's a good way to score some roasted crawdads, crafting components ( like alligator teeth or strange fungi), and perhaps a few Pre-Calamity Tokens. Posted on a cypress tree to  the south of the path you'll find a notice scrawled on a piece of flotsam: **" Wanted: Fire Ant Nectar. Will pay top Scute. Large quantities welcome. Mama Toussaint, the Herbal ist."** Good to know.

Continue west until the path forks. At the fork you'll find the **Community Message Post ** – that staple of desperate settlements which bestows quests upon us. Even better, just looking at the Community Post (even  without taking any of the notices) will update your Bayou Buddy's map with a variety of "Uncharted Locations."  These range from **Shambler Mounds, Guarded Stashes, Raider Encampments,** and other optional places worth  exploring to score loot and experience. The notices worth grabbing are **"Contract: Terror of Crawdad Creek"** which starts a  quest of the same name, and **"Brother Missing in the Mists"** which starts **"Lost in the Bayou ."** If you save and reload your game, new notices might appear (perhaps delivered by a Talking Crow, a Pr imal Mama world feature), but since none of them start new quests, there's not much point in bothering.

###  The Sabotaged Solar Still (Twisted Firestarter Re-skin)

From the Community Post head south to find a very  angry, greasy Mechanic named **Willy** cursing as he works at his jury-rigged solar still. Talk to the  poor guy and, as one would expect, he's rather snippy. Keep cool and he'll tell you  that somebody sabotaged his still – an act he feels was brought on by tensions with a local meat-processing oligarch' s goons from Beetriot, or perhaps just some Luddite swamp folk fearing his "newfangled" ( but still 70s aesthetic) tech. Offer to help him for a price and he'll agree to give you whatever he  has left (some quality distilled water or potent moonshine) to find the cause of his misfortune. This begins the quest **" The Sabotaged Solar Still."**

First, note the **Grindstone** (or perhaps a "Gator -Hide Strop") to the north-east. Using it is free, and will sharpen your Gator-Tooth Blade,  giving you the "Razor Edge" boon for 15 minutes. Score. Head behind the mechanic's shack and search  to the south-east using your Bayou Sight to spot some evidence on the ground (a discarded tool, specific footprints). Invest igate them and Gator will deduce the saboteur's actions. Further south-east Gator will find footprints, which seem to belong  to a large man wearing distinctive Beetriot-issue boots. Follow them or less east to a cypress tree, where Gator  will detect the smell of cheap synth-booze and desperation – a common combination. Keep following the tracks east to reach  a waterway, then north-east until they terminate near a half-sunken fanboat. As drunk as our saboteur was,  he was at least wise enough to try and cover his trail by taking to the water. Loot a submerged chest to the north and pass  under a rickety bridge to find where the tracks continue, north of the bridge. Signs of a struggle are noted – apparently  our saboteur was attacked by **Mutated Crawdads** and lost his boots in the scuffle. The trail continues to  the west and onto the muddy path that runs through Lickskillet. Follow the wounded saboteur's trail to a shack  just south of the Watering Hole.

Head inside and Gator will comment that we'll be able to spot our saboteur by the  wounds he bears. Search the eastern room to find **Nappo**, who is obviously drunk and injured, reeking of synth- booze. Talk to him and he'll confirm the mechanic's suspicions – a combination of anti-tech sentiment  and orders from a Beetriot foreman led him to trash the still. Knowing that he's in trouble, however, he'll  offer to give you some salvaged components to let him go. If you accept, the mechanic will be upset you couldn't " bring the varmint to justice," but he'll still offer his services to you… which is really the point of all this ( access to a 70s tech mechanic for upgrades/crafting).

| Objective                          | Reward          |
| : --------------------------------- | :-------------- |
| For talking to the saboteur        | 25 XP           |
| For  letting the saboteur go        | 25 XP           |
| For telling Willy about your failure | 5 0 XP           |

Alternatively, you can attempt to apprehend him. Doing so will provoke him to attempt to fist fight you.  You can indulge him and pummel him into submission, or you can use the **Gator's Gaze** J uju to subdue him and get him to come along peacefully. In the former case, you'll appear back near the mechanic,  in the latter case, you'll have to escort Nappo to him. Either way, the outcome is the  same – Willy thanks you, perhaps mentioning he'll let the local "Swamp Justice" (a council of elders,  or maybe just Mama Legba) deal with Nappo. Once they're gone, Willy decides you're alright  and will offer to work his forge/workshop for you.

| Objective                                  | Reward |
| :---------------- ------------------------- | :----- |
| For using the Gator's Gaze on Nappo        | 2 5 XP  |
| For bringing Nappo back to Willy          | 25 XP  |

One way  or another, we have a mechanic at our disposal, which allows us to repair our gear, craft new 70s- tech items or swamp-infused gear, break down old salvaged tech for components, and of course, peruse his wares. Dism antling hides, old tools, and inferior weapons is a good idea, as it's a fine way to score components  at little cost. You also are able to turn more refined components into more generic ones (Circuits into Wires,  for example), but at this point in time, there's little need to do so. Consider dismantling all your Junk,  while leaving Crafting Components and Alchemy Ingredients alone. For more information on crafting, see the section "Crafting in the  Bayou."

Of particular interest in his inventory are the **Expanded Gator-Steed Saddlebags**, which will increase your maximum inventory  weight by 30, a boost of 50%. They cost nearly 200 Scutes, however . Also, you might have – or nearly have – the components required to upgrade your armor to the **Reinforced Gator-Hide  Jacket**, depending on how diligently you looted the shacks in Lickskillet. All of this costs Scutes however , and right now the best way to earn Scutes is by selling the rare swamp herbs we pick. They're plentiful,  they grow everywhere, and each one is worth a Scute. Hunting alligators (for meat and hide, the primary economy ) works, too, especially if you use the Swampfire Juju to save wear and tear on your weaponry. Or … we could start exploring. That's an option, too. There's nothing stopping you from hunting game, killing  mutated critters, and picking herbs while we explore, either. In fact, it's recommended! Yeah… let's do  that.

---
**(Continuing with "To the Ransacked Village" / "To the Pillaged Fishing Shanty"  and subsequent sections, re-skinning enemies, locations, items, and quest motivations as per Primal Mama lore.) **
---

This is a significant undertaking, so I'll proceed section by section, focusing on the White Orchard equivalent  ("The Murky Margins") first. I will try to keep the quest structure and learning curve of the original,  while infusing it deeply with Primal Mama's unique flavor. Let me know if this direction is what you' re looking for!
